Abstract: The objective of basic oxygen furnace (BOF) steelmaking is to achieve molten steel with final carbon content, temperature, and phosphorus content meeting the requirements. Therefore, accurate prediction of molten steel property is the key to end-point control of BOF steelmaking. Most of the traditional prediction models are multi-variable input and single-variable output prediction models, which ignore the coupling relationship between property indicators and make it difficult to predict multiple output variables at the same time. Consequently, a multi-output prediction model based on the fusion of deep convolution and attention mechanism network (FDCAN) is proposed. The model's input variables encompass scalar data, including raw materials, and time-series data, such as lance height. Both the fully connected module and the deep convo-lution module are employed to extract feature representations of scalar and time-series data in high-dimensional space, respectively. On this basis, the attention mechanism assigns greater weight to features of significant importance. Finally, multiple output variables are predicted through multiple multi-layer perceptron modules. Thus, the FDCAN model can effectively learn intricate mapping relationships within input variables, between input and output variables, and among output variables themselves. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is validated using data from the BOF steelmaking process. The hit rates for final carbon content within an error range of ±0.015 wt%, final temperature within an error range of ±15°C, and final phosphorus content within an error range of ±0.005 wt% are 95.14%, 84.72%, and 88.89%, respectively.
